expertise/index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Expertise offered by the Sheffield Bioinformatics Core
excerpt: "How to work with the SBC..."
---


The SBC has expertise in the following areas, and software packages:-

## Experimental Design

*If you are planning an experiment, please come to us before generating data so that we can discuss the design* 

The Core is experienced in advising on the following issues:-

- Optimal number of replicates
- Biases and confounding factors
- Single-end or paired-end sequencing
- Depth of sequencing required

## High-Throughput Sequence Analysis

- BWA, Bowtie and other aligners for all NGS platforms and applications
- Tophat, edgeR, DESeq2 and salmon (among others) for RNA-Seq analysis
- GATK, VarScan and MuTect for somatic and germline mutation calling
- manta, BRASS for calling of structural variants
- MACS2, and other peak callers for ChIP-Seq analysis
- Downstream analysis of gene lists to identify over-represented pathways / ontologies using [GSEA](http://software.broadinstitute.org/gsea/index.jsp), goseq, or other online tools such as [DAVID](https://david.ncifcrf.gov/) or [Genetrail](https://genetrail2.bioinf.uni-sb.de/).

## Nanopore Sequence Analysis

- Direct & cDNA RNASeq
- CRISPR/Cas9 targeted sequencing
- Amplicon sequencing
- SARS-CoV-2 sequencing and analysis
- Microbial genomics
- Plasmid sequencing

## Clinical Bioinformatics Services

Matthew Parker is a registered Clinical Scientist (Bioinformatics) in the core and has experience of providing clinical bioinformatics services for the NHS. 

- Clinical bioinformatics consulting:
  - Consultation on appropriate and best practice clinical bioinformatics
  - Staff training in bioinformatics
  - Advice/Implementation of computing facilities for clinical analysis
  - Consultation on obtaining UKAS (ISO-15189) accreditation
- Extended variant review and analysis
- Analysis of copy number and structural variants
- Assessment of analyses and pipelines
- Integration of bioinformatics pipelines with other software, e.g. LIMS
- Ad-Hoc bioinformatics support

## Microarray Analysis

- Experience with data from Affymetrix and Illumina platforms
- Varying data types, including expression, methylation (450K), SNP and copy-number

## Further Expertise

- Custom pipeline creation
- Custom visualisation of high-throughput data
- Packaging and deploying software environments with [docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- Data Management and curation
- Creating interactive web applications wih [shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com/)

As well as these analysis services, we also provide [training](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/training) courses and bespoke 1-to-1 training for researchers

Commit message:

Update of expertise with single cell

expertise/index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Expertise offered by the Sheffield Bioinformatics Core
excerpt: "How to work with the SBC..."
---


The SBC has expertise in the following areas, and software packages:-

## Experimental Design

*If you are planning an experiment, please come to us before generating data so that we can discuss the design* 

The Core is experienced in advising on the following issues:-

- Optimal number of replicates
- Biases and confounding factors
- Single-end or paired-end sequencing
- Depth of sequencing required

## High-Throughput Sequence Analysis

- BWA, Bowtie and other aligners for all NGS platforms and applications
- Tophat, edgeR, DESeq2 and salmon (among others) for RNA-Seq analysis
- GATK, VarScan and MuTect for somatic and germline mutation calling
- manta, BRASS for calling of structural variants
- MACS2, and other peak callers for ChIP-Seq analysis
- Downstream analysis of gene lists to identify over-represented pathways / ontologies using [GSEA](http://software.broadinstitute.org/gsea/index.jsp), goseq, or other online tools such as [DAVID](https://david.ncifcrf.gov/) or [Genetrail](https://genetrail2.bioinf.uni-sb.de/).

## Single Cell RNA-Seq

- QC, analysis and visualisation for single cell RNA-seq data
- Analysis of Spatial transcriptomics data


## Microarray Analysis

- Experience with data from Affymetrix and Illumina platforms
- Varying data types, including expression, methylation (450K), SNP and copy-number

## Further Expertise

- Custom visualisation of high-throughput data
- Custom bioinformatic workflows and piplines with [nextflow](https://www.nextflow.io/)
- Packaging and deploying software environments with [docker](https://www.docker.com/)
- Data Management and curation
- Creating interactive web applications wih [shiny](https://shiny.rstudio.com/)

As well as these analysis services, we also provide [training](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/training) courses and bespoke 1-to-1 training for researchers
