index.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: 
excerpt: "Sheffield Bioinformatics Core Facility home page."
search_omit: true
---

The Sheffield Bioinformatics Core Facility aims to develop and advance the training and application of bioinformatics and computational biology to biological research, biomedical research and public health in Sheffield. Our consulting and training courses are also available to other Universities and industrial partners

We offer a comprehensive [training programme](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/training) and services including (but not limited to):

- Experimental Design
- High-Throughput Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Analysis
- Single-cell RNA-seq and spatial transcriptomics
- Analysis of long-read sequencing (e.g. Nanopore)
- Microarray Analysis
- Other Common Bioinformatics Analysis
See [expertise](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/expertise) for more details...

On this website, you can find about more about [working with us](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/policies), our [team](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/team) and [expertise](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/expertise) and details of upcoming [training](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/training) courses.

This website is hosted via [GitHub pages](https://github.com/sheffield-bioinformatics-core/sheffield-bioinformatics-core.github.io). If you see any typos or other mistakes please let us know...or file a pull request with your edits.

Commit message:

Add links to multi-omics

index.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: 
excerpt: "Sheffield Bioinformatics Core Facility home page."
search_omit: true
---

The Sheffield Bioinformatics Core Facility aims to develop and advance the training and application of bioinformatics and computational biology to biological research, biomedical research and public health in Sheffield. Our consulting and training courses are also available to other Universities and industrial partners

We offer a comprehensive [training programme](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/training) and services including (but not limited to):

- Experimental Design
- High-Throughput Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Analysis
- Single-cell RNA-seq and spatial transcriptomics
- Analysis of long-read sequencing (e.g. Nanopore)
- Microarray Analysis
- Other Common Bioinformatics Analysis
See [expertise](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/expertise) for more details...

On this website, you can find about more about [working with us](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/policies), our [team](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/team) and [expertise](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/expertise) and details of upcoming [training](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/training) courses.

If you need support with experimental techniques for performing high-throughput biological studies we can put you in touch with local expertise at the SITraN multi-omics facility.
