training/2023_07_26_command-line.md, before:

---
layout: page
organizer: Sheffield Bioinformatics Core
title: Introduction to the command line for Bioinformatics
excerpt: "Introduction to Unix"
startDate: 2023-06-26
endDate: 2023-06-26
startTime: 09.30
endTime: 16.30
city: Sheffield,
postcode: S3 7RD
country: United Kingdom
venue: The Diamond, Workroom 1
description: "This course offers an introduction to working with Linux. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We will use a case study of dealing with next-generation sequencing data"
keywords: bioinformatics, bash, unix, online
difficulty: beginner
scientific_keywords: bioinformatics, command line, unix, BASH, linux, informatics
contact: bioinformatics-core@sheffield.ac.uk
---

- Sheffield - 26th June 2023
- 19:30 - 16:30pm
- The Diamond - Workroom 1

- [Registration Link](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/introduction-to-the-command-line-for-bioinformatics-tickets-609611884557)




## Overview

This course offers an introduction to working with Linux for Bioinformatics. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We give example of processing data arising from Next-Generation Sequencing experiments, in particular an RNA-seq experiment.



## Who should attend this course?

Those wanting to use the command-line to perform data analysis; particularly those with next-generation sequencing data such as RNA-Seq

## Objectives:- After this course you should be able to:

- Connect to a Unix / Linux system
- Navigate around a file system by issuing commands; rather than using a Desktop environment
- Move and copy files and directories within the Linux system
- Work with text files
- Run programs from the command-line
- Run quality assessment tools on data derived from High-throughput sequencing experiments
 -Write short scripts to document an analysis


## Aims:- During this course you will learn about:

- Quality assessment of NGS data
- A basic workflow for processing RNA-seq data
- Workflow management systems; such as nextflow


## Prerequisites

- No prior programming experience is required

## Software

- No software is required. You will be given access to an AWS machine on the day

## Schedule (Provisional)

- 09:30 - 10:00 [(MD) Introduction and Course Setup](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/wr_bbsrc_dtp_analytics2_2023/part0.nb.html)
- 10:00 - 10:45 [(EC) Navigating Files and Directories](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/02-the-filesystem.html)
- 10:45 - 11:30 [(EC) Working with Files and Directories](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/03-working-with-files.html)
- 11:30 - 12:00 [(MD) Redirection](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/04-redirection.html)
- 12:00 - 12:45 LUNCH (not provided)
- 12:45 - 13:45 [(MD) Writing scripts and Working with Data](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/05-writing-scripts.html)
- 13:45 - 14:45 [(EC) Obtaining Sequencing Data and Quality Assessment](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/wr_bbsrc_dtp_analytics2_2023/part2.nb.html)
- 14:45 - 16:30 [(MD) Workflows and pipelines](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/wr_bbsrc_dtp_analytics2_2023/part3.nb.html)


## Instructors

- Mark Dunning, Bioinformatics Core Director
- Emily Chambers, Bioinformatics Core Analyst
- Ben Draper, PhD Student, CBE
- Jack Riley, PhD Student, Biosciences

Commit message:

Add link to unix cheat sheet

training/2023_07_26_command-line.md, after:

---
layout: page
organizer: Sheffield Bioinformatics Core
title: Introduction to the command line for Bioinformatics
excerpt: "Introduction to Unix"
startDate: 2023-06-26
endDate: 2023-06-26
startTime: 09.30
endTime: 16.30
city: Sheffield,
postcode: S3 7RD
country: United Kingdom
venue: The Diamond, Workroom 1
description: "This course offers an introduction to working with Linux. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We will use a case study of dealing with next-generation sequencing data"
keywords: bioinformatics, bash, unix, online
difficulty: beginner
scientific_keywords: bioinformatics, command line, unix, BASH, linux, informatics
contact: bioinformatics-core@sheffield.ac.uk
---

- Sheffield - 26th June 2023
- 19:30 - 16:30pm
- The Diamond - Workroom 1

- [Registration Link](https://www.eventbrite.com/e/introduction-to-the-command-line-for-bioinformatics-tickets-609611884557)




## Overview

This course offers an introduction to working with Linux for Bioinformatics. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We give example of processing data arising from Next-Generation Sequencing experiments, in particular an RNA-seq experiment.



## Who should attend this course?

Those wanting to use the command-line to perform data analysis; particularly those with next-generation sequencing data such as RNA-Seq

## Objectives:- After this course you should be able to:

- Connect to a Unix / Linux system
- Navigate around a file system by issuing commands; rather than using a Desktop environment
- Move and copy files and directories within the Linux system
- Work with text files
- Run programs from the command-line
- Run quality assessment tools on data derived from High-throughput sequencing experiments
 -Write short scripts to document an analysis


## Aims:- During this course you will learn about:

- Quality assessment of NGS data
- A basic workflow for processing RNA-seq data
- Workflow management systems; such as nextflow


## Prerequisites

- No prior programming experience is required

## Software

- No software is required. You will be given access to an AWS machine on the day

## Unix Reference Sheet

Feel free to download this "cheat sheet" describing some of the commands that we will be covering

- [https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/79/Unix_command_cheatsheet.pdf](https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/7/79/Unix_command_cheatsheet.pdf)

## Schedule (Provisional)

- 09:30 - 10:00 [(MD) Introduction and Course Setup](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/wr_bbsrc_dtp_analytics2_2023/part0.nb.html)
- 10:00 - 10:45 [(EC) Navigating Files and Directories](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/02-the-filesystem.html)
- 10:45 - 11:30 [(EC) Working with Files and Directories](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/03-working-with-files.html)
- 11:30 - 12:00 [(MD) Redirection](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/04-redirection.html)
- 12:00 - 12:45 LUNCH (not provided)
- 12:45 - 13:45 [(MD) Writing scripts and Working with Data](https://datacarpentry.org/shell-genomics/05-writing-scripts.html)
- 13:45 - 14:45 [(EC) Obtaining Sequencing Data and Quality Assessment](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/wr_bbsrc_dtp_analytics2_2023/part2.nb.html)
- 14:45 - 16:30 [(MD) Workflows and pipelines](https://sbc.shef.ac.uk/wr_bbsrc_dtp_analytics2_2023/part3.nb.html)


## Instructors

- Mark Dunning, Bioinformatics Core Director
- Emily Chambers, Bioinformatics Core Analyst
- Ben Draper, PhD Student, CBE
- Jack Riley, PhD Student, Biosciences
