training/command-line-2018-05-21.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction to Unix for Bioinformatics
excerpt: "Introduction to Unix"
date: 2018-05-21
startTime: 09.30
endTime: 17.00
city: sheffield
country: United Kingdom
venue: Pam Liversidge Design Studio 2 - e06

---

- Sheffield - 21st May 2018
- 09:30am - 5pm
- Pam Liversidge Design Studio 1 - E06

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d9519.181464571486!2d-1.4777067!3d53.3827108!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x60e5580cdf19b137!2sPam+Liversidge+Building!5e0!3m2!1sen!2suk!4v1510862811609" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Overview

This course offers an introduction to working with Linux. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We will take a problem-solving approach, drawing on types of tasks commonly encountered by Linux users when processing text files.

## Who should attend this course?


## Objectives:- After this course you should be able to:

- Connect to a Unix / Linux system
- Manipulate files and directories within the Linux system
- Work with text files
- Understand how to structure and write a simple shell script
- Run programs from the command-line

## Aims:- During this course you will learn about:

- Navigating through a Unix file system
- Creating and deleting files
- Searching for files and for text within a file
- Writing and executing simple shell scripts


## Prerequisites

- No prior programming experience is required, but those attending should be able to use a plain text editor.

## Instructors

- Mark Dunning, Bioinformatics Core Director
- to be confirmed...

## Course Data


## Timetable (provisional)


## Registration 

Registration is open. [Click here](https://onlineshop.shef.ac.uk/conferences-events/faculty-of-medicine-dentistry-and-health/neuroscience/introduction-to-unix-for-bioinformatics) to sign-up

Commit message:

add extra metadata to course pages for scraping

training/command-line-2018-05-21.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction to Unix for Bioinformatics
excerpt: "Introduction to Unix"
startDate: 2018-05-21
endDate: 2018-05-21
startTime: 09.30
endTime: 17.00
city: sheffield
postcode: S1 3JD
country: United Kingdom
venue: Pam Liversidge Design Studio 2 - E06
description: "This course offers an introduction to working with Linux. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We will take a problem-solving approach, drawing on types of tasks commonly encountered by Linux users when processing text files"
keywords: bioinformatics, bash, unix
difficulty: beginner
contact: bioinformatics-core@sheffield.ac.uk
---

- Sheffield - 21st May 2018
- 09:30am - 5pm
- Pam Liversidge Design Studio 1 - E06

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d9519.181464571486!2d-1.4777067!3d53.3827108!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x60e5580cdf19b137!2sPam+Liversidge+Building!5e0!3m2!1sen!2suk!4v1510862811609" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Overview

This course offers an introduction to working with Linux. We will describe the Linux environment so that participants can start to utilize command-line tools and feel comfortable using a text-based way of interacting with a computer. We will take a problem-solving approach, drawing on types of tasks commonly encountered by Linux users when processing text files.

## Who should attend this course?


## Objectives:- After this course you should be able to:

- Connect to a Unix / Linux system
- Manipulate files and directories within the Linux system
- Work with text files
- Understand how to structure and write a simple shell script
- Run programs from the command-line

## Aims:- During this course you will learn about:

- Navigating through a Unix file system
- Creating and deleting files
- Searching for files and for text within a file
- Writing and executing simple shell scripts


## Prerequisites

- No prior programming experience is required, but those attending should be able to use a plain text editor.

## Instructors

- Mark Dunning, Bioinformatics Core Director
- to be confirmed...

## Course Data


## Timetable (provisional)


## Registration 

Registration is open. [Click here](https://onlineshop.shef.ac.uk/conferences-events/faculty-of-medicine-dentistry-and-health/neuroscience/introduction-to-unix-for-bioinformatics) to sign-up
