training/stats-introduction-2018-06-21.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction to Statistical Analysis
excerpt: "Stats Intro"
date: 2018-06-18
startTime: 09.30
endTime: 17.00
city: sheffield
country: United Kingdom
venue: Pam Liversidge Design Studio 1 - D06

---

- Sheffield - 18th June 2018
- 09:30am - 5pm
- Pam Liversidge Design Studio 1 - D06

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d9519.181464571486!2d-1.4777067!3d53.3827108!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x60e5580cdf19b137!2sPam+Liversidge+Building!5e0!3m2!1sen!2suk!4v1510862811609" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Overview
This course provides a refresher on the foundations of statistical analysis. Practicals are conducted using the ‘Shiny’ package; which provides an accessible interface to the R statistical language.

Note that this is not a course for learning about the R statistical language itself. If you wish to learn more about R, please see other courses at the Sheffield Bioinformatics Core.

## Who should attend this course?


## Objectives:- After this course you should be able to:

- State the assumptions required for a one-sample and two-sample t-test and be able to interpret the results of such a test
- Know when to apply a paired or independent two-sample t-test
- To perform simple statistical calculations using the online app
- Understand the limitations of the tests taught within the course
- Know when more complex statistical methods are required


## Aims:- During this course you will learn about:

- Different types of data, distributions and structure within data
- Summary statistics for continuous and discrete data
- Formulating a null hypothesis
- Assumptions of one-sample and two-sample t-tests
- Interpreting the result of a statistical test
- Statistical tests of categorical variables (Chi-squared and Fisher’s exact tests)
- Non-parametric versions of one- and two-sample tests (Wilcoxon tests)



## Prerequisites

- No prior programming experience is required, but those attending should be able to use a plain text editor.

## Instructors

- Mark Dunning, Bioinformatics Core Director
- to be confirmed

## Course Data


## Timetable (provisional)



## Registration 

Registration is opening soon...

Commit message:

add extra metadata to course pages for scraping

training/stats-introduction-2018-06-21.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: Introduction to Statistical Analysis
excerpt: "Stats Intro"
startDate: 2018-06-18
endDate: 2018-06-18
startTime: 10.30
endTime: 17.00
city: sheffield
country: United Kingdom
venue: Pam Liversidge Design Studio 1 - D06
description: "This course provides a refresher on the foundations of statistical analysis. Practicals are conducted using the ‘Shiny’ package; which provides an accessible interface to the R statistical language. Note that this is not a course for learning about the R statistical language itself. If you wish to learn more about R, please see other courses at the Sheffield Bioinformatics Core."
keywords: statistics
difficulty: beginner
contact: bioinformatics-core@sheffield.ac.uk
---

- Sheffield - 18th June 2018
- 09:30am - 5pm
- Pam Liversidge Design Studio 1 - D06

<iframe src="https://www.google.com/maps/embed?pb=!1m14!1m8!1m3!1d9519.181464571486!2d-1.4777067!3d53.3827108!3m2!1i1024!2i768!4f13.1!3m3!1m2!1s0x0%3A0x60e5580cdf19b137!2sPam+Liversidge+Building!5e0!3m2!1sen!2suk!4v1510862811609" width="600" height="450" frameborder="0" style="border:0" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Overview
This course provides a refresher on the foundations of statistical analysis. Practicals are conducted using the ‘Shiny’ package; which provides an accessible interface to the R statistical language.

Note that this is not a course for learning about the R statistical language itself. If you wish to learn more about R, please see other courses at the Sheffield Bioinformatics Core.

## Who should attend this course?


## Objectives:- After this course you should be able to:

- State the assumptions required for a one-sample and two-sample t-test and be able to interpret the results of such a test
- Know when to apply a paired or independent two-sample t-test
- To perform simple statistical calculations using the online app
- Understand the limitations of the tests taught within the course
- Know when more complex statistical methods are required


## Aims:- During this course you will learn about:

- Different types of data, distributions and structure within data
- Summary statistics for continuous and discrete data
- Formulating a null hypothesis
- Assumptions of one-sample and two-sample t-tests
- Interpreting the result of a statistical test
- Statistical tests of categorical variables (Chi-squared and Fisher’s exact tests)
- Non-parametric versions of one- and two-sample tests (Wilcoxon tests)



## Prerequisites

- No prior programming experience is required, but those attending should be able to use a plain text editor.

## Instructors

- Mark Dunning, Bioinformatics Core Director
- to be confirmed

## Course Data


## Timetable (provisional)



## Registration 

Registration is opening soon...
