pages/collaboration/index.md, before:

---
title: Why work with us?
permalink: /collaboration/
slug: index
type: text
---

The Sheffield Bioinformatics Core (SBC) team at the University of Sheffield strives to:

- Enhance the University’s capacity for producing high quality, Bioinformatics analysis and thus increasing research impact and decreasing time to publication.
- Provide a range of Bioinformatics skills (see our [expertise](/collaboration/expertise) via a pool of staff to support
research grants, thereby increasing the capability of research units and helping to meet the
requirements and expectations of funders.

- Act as the hub of a university community that supports good practice in research software.

The SBC team can collaborate with you to help improve your biological / health research.
We have a pool of [expert staff](/contact/team) to ensure that you can deliver best-practice Bioinformatics analysis on your research projects (see [testimonials](/collaboration/testimonials/)).
Supporting the entire University, we have collaborators in every faculty and have supported researchers in a range of subject areas including Biosciences, Chemical and Biological Engineering, Clinical Medicine and Neuroscience.
Please contact us (<bioinformatics-core@sheffield.ac.uk>) to arrange a [scoping meeting](/collaboration/provision).

### Why work with the SBC Team

The SBC Team allows you to get dedicated Bioinformatics support.
Recruitment of such skills is very difficult on research projects,
especially when you only require short term expertise.
UKRI (and most other UK and EU funding agencies) understand what an import part Core Facilities have on research and
would like to see that they are being offered sustainable careers with academia.

Commit message:

Add some events
Setup team pages

pages/collaboration/index.md, after:

---
title: Why work with us?
permalink: /collaboration/
slug: index
type: text
---

The Sheffield Bioinformatics Core Facility aims to develop and advance the training and application of bioinformatics and computational biology to biological research, biomedical research and public health in Sheffield. Our consulting and training courses are also available to other Universities and industrial partners

We offer a comprehensive training programme and services including (but not limited to):

- Experimental Design
- High-Throughput Next Generation Sequencing (NGS) Analysis
  + RNA-seq analysis
  + Variant calling
  + ChIP- and ATAC-seq
- Single-cell RNA-seq and spatial transcriptomics
- Analysis of long-read sequencing (e.g. Nanopore)
- Microarray Analysis
- Other Common Bioinformatics Analysis See [expertise](/collaboration/expertise/) for more details…


On this website, you can find about more about working with us, our team and expertise and details of [upcoming training courses](/training/).

If you need support with experimental techniques for performing high-throughput biological studies we can put you in touch with local expertise at the SITraN multi-omics facility.

### Why work with the SBC Team

The SBC Team allows you to get dedicated Bioinformatics support as required for your project. This could be for a short period of time, or a full-time post.

Recruitment of such skills is very difficult on research projects,
especially when you only require short term expertise. With our model, you will only pay for the support you need. It will be more efficient for you, as any hired individual will have to spending time training on the job and researching the best pipelines to use. On the other hand, we already pipelines setup ready to deploy. 

UKRI (and most other UK and EU funding agencies) understand what an important part Core Facilities have on research and
would like to see that they are being offered sustainable careers with academia.
